Add docs for ACK default tags (#1391)
aws-controllers-k8s/community: docs/content/docs/user-docs/ack-tags.md

---
title: "Managing Tags on your AWS Resources"
description: "Managing Tags on your AWS Resources"
lead: ""
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "getting-started"
weight: 67
toc: true
---

Most AWS resources can have one or more Tags(simple key/value pairs)
associated with them. These Tags allow you to organize and categorize
your AWS resources for accounting and informational purposes. ACK custom
resources (CRs) that support Tags will have a *Spec.Tags* field that
stores user-defined key/value pairs. In addition to user-defined Tags,
ACK also supports a set of default tags, which are Tags that the ACK
controller will automatically ensure are on all resources that it manages.

The two default tags added by ACK controller are `services.k8s.aws/controller-version`
and `services.k8s.aws/namespace`. The *controller-version* tag value is the name of
corresponding AWS service and version for that controller(Ex: s3-v0.1.3).
And the *namespace* tag value is the namespace for the ACK resource.(Ex: default)

> When tags are already present inside the resource spec, ACK default tags are
> added in AWS resource alongside the tags from resource spec. Priority is given to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When tags are already present inside the Kubernetes custom resource's `Spec.Tags`, ACK default tags are
added to the AWS resource's tags collection along with those tags from `Spec.Tags`. Priority is given to
```

> resource spec tags when there is a conflict between ACK default tag keys and tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Spec.Tags` when there is a conflict between ACK default tag keys and tag
```

> keys in resource spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keys in `Spec.Tags`.
```

            "Value": "ecr-v0.1.4"
        },
        {
            "Key": "first",
            "Value": "1"
        },
        {
            "Key": "services.k8s.aws/namespace",
            "Value": "default"
        },
        {
            "Key": "second",
            "Value": "2"
        }
    ]
}

```

## Configuring Default Tags

The default tags added by ACK controllers are configurable during controller
installation.

* To remove the ACK default tags, set the `resourceTags` Helm value to be `{}` inside
*values.yaml* file or use `--set 'resourceTags={}'` during helm chart installation.

* To override the default ACK tags, include each tag "key=value" pair as a list under
`resourceTags` in *values.yaml* file
  ```yaml
  resourceTags:
  - tk1=tv1
  - tk2=tv2
  ```
  You can also override default ACK tags using `--set 'resourceTags=[tk1=tv1, tk2=tv2]'`
  during helm chart installation.

* ACK supports variable expansion inside tag values for following variables:
  - %CONTROLLER_SERVICE%
  - %CONTROLLER_VERSION%
  - %K8S_NAMESPACE%
  - %K8S_RESOURCE_NAME%

  A custom resource tag `k8s-name=%K8S_RESOURCE_NAME` in above ecr repository example

>   will be expanded as "k8s-name=my-ack-tagging-repo"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  would be expanded to "k8s-name=my-ack-tagging-repo"
```

---

> title: "Managing ACK Default Tags"

Reviewer: I'm tempted to make this more generic... something like "Managing Tags on your AWS Resources"

description: "Managing ACK Default Tags"
lead: ""
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "getting-started"
weight: 67
toc: true
---

ACK controllers add default tags to AWS resources that support tagging.
These default tags help in identifying and categorizing the AWS resources

> managed by ACK controllers.

Reviewer: and then before this paragraph, say something to the effect of:

> Most AWS resources can have one or more Tags -- simple key/value pairs -- associated with them. These Tags allow you to organize and categorize your AWS resources for accounting and informational purposes. ACK custom resources (CRs) that support Tags will have a `Spec.Tags` field that store user-defined key/value pairs. In addition to user-defined Tags, ACK also supports a set of *default tags*, which are Tags that the ACK controller will automatically ensure are on all resources that it manages.

The two default tags added by ACK controller are `services.k8s.aws/controller-version`

> and `services.k8s.aws/namespace`. *controller-version* tag value is the name of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and `services.k8s.aws/namespace`. The *controller-version* tag value is the name of
```

corresponding AWS service and version for that controller(Ex: s3-v0.1.3).
And the *namespace* tag value is the namespace for the ACK resource.(Ex: default)

When tags are already present inside the resource spec, ACK default tags are
added in AWS resource alongside the tags from resource spec. Priority is given to
resource spec tags when there is a conflict between ACK default tag keys and tag
keys in resource spec.

> Example:

Reviewer 2: nit: Make into a header
```suggestion
### Example
```

For a resource manifest like

```yaml
apiVersion: s3.services.k8s.aws/v1alpha1
kind: Bucket
metadata:

>   name: my-ack-tagging-bucket

Reviewer 2: Please add `namespace: default` so people can directly see that the tag value matches the metadata value

spec:
  name: my-ack-tagging-bucket
  tagging:
    tagSet:
    - key: "first"
      value: "1"
    - key: "second"

>       value: "2"

Reviewer: Completely agree. :) Let's use one of the CRDs that has a `Tags` field that is either a `map[string]string` or `[]struct{}` type.

```

The sample response for `get-bucket-tagging` will look like

```bash
aws s3api get-bucket-tagging --bucket=my-ack-tagging-bucket

{
    "TagSet": [
        {
            "Key": "services.k8s.aws/controller-version",
            "Value": "s3-v0.1.3"
        },
        {
            "Key": "first",
            "Value": "1"
        },
        {
            "Key": "services.k8s.aws/namespace",
            "Value": "default"
        },
        {
            "Key": "second",
            "Value": "2"
        }
    ]
}

```

## Configuring Default Tags

The default tags added by ACK controllers are configurable during controller
installation.

To remove the ACK default tags, include `--set 'resourceTags={}'` during helm
chart installation

To provide different value for default ACK tags, include
`--set 'resourceTags={tk1=tv1, tk2=tv2}'` during helm chart installation.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we also call out which variable substitutions we allow?
